Join Dr. Steve Sekula and the Department of Physics to view “transit of Mercury,” when Mercury will pass between Earth and the Sun. There will be a telescope with a solar filter set up for observation in the plaza behind Dedman Life Sciences Building. Stop by to experience this special event – the next “transit” won’t occur until 2032. For more information, please contact Dr. Sekula at ssekula@smu.edu. 

Have a collection of digitized books, music lyrics, letters, or articles and want to visualize a map of all locations mentioned in the texts? Using the Google Colaboratory Python environment, learn how to write and leverage Python code to: (1) automatically extract named locations from texts, (2) obtain coordinates for these locations by geocoding against Bing Maps API, and (3) visualize these locations by overlaying on an interactive map. Join the Dedman College Interdisciplinary Institute and SMU Libraries in welcoming Joshua Been, digital scholarship librarian from Baylor University, for a presentation on text data mining, data visualization, and more! For more information and to register, please visit: smu.edu/libraryworkshops.

Walter E. Seward’s recently recovered Negroes Call to the Colors and Soldiers Camp-life Poems (1919) depicts black soldiers’ experiences during WWI. This talk carves out a place for Seward’s work within the African American literary tradition and examines how his multidimensional use of photography and poetry posits black identity and life into the national consciousness. For more information, please visit: https://www.smu.edu/Dedman/Academics/Departments/English/LecturesAndEvents.

The SMU Jewish Studies Program’s Nate and Ann Levine Lecture Series welcomes Dr. Daniel Cohen, associate professor of history and Jewish studies at Rice University. He has published on forced displacement, Jewish migration, human rights, and refugees in the twentieth century. His talk will address how post-WWII European secular and Christian “philosemites” imagined various types of loveable “good Jews.” Cohen will explore the complexity of this newfound sympathy and explain how today's antisemitic portrait of the cosmopolitan Jew or demonic Israeli continues to fuel antisemitic paranoia. For more information, please contact Shira Lander at jewishstudies@smu.edu.

The SMU Department of Mathematics hosts Max Gunzburger, Department of Scientific Computing at Florida State University, as part of the Clements Scientific Computing Seminar Series. He will discuss the use of canonical examples of fractional Laplacian and peridynamics equations to explore their use as models for nonlocal diffusion and mechanics, respectively, via integral equations with singular kernels. In particular, he explains the recently developed asymptotically compatible families of discretization schemes. Refreshments will be provided beginning 15 minutes prior to the lecture. For more information, please visit: https://www.smu.edu/Dedman/Academics/Departments/Math/Seminars.

The Department of Statistical Science invites you to a seminar with Dr. Bo Li, an assistant professor in the Department of Bioinformatics at the UT Southwestern Medical Center. Dr. Li will introduce a deep learning method (DeepCAT) to enable de novo prediction of the cancer-associated T cell receptors. For more information, please contact Sheila Crain at scrain@smu.edu. 

The Department of Economics invites you to a seminar with Jeff Thurk, assistant professor of economics at the University of Notre Dame. Professor Thurk’s research combines detailed data and structural equilibrium models to address substantive questions in the area of empirical industrial organization with direct implications for economic policy. In the seminar, he will discuss how the lack of inflation-indexing on federal and state taxation of alcohol kept retail price low, benefited firms, and increased alcohol consumption and the prevalence of alcohol-related disease. For more information about the economics seminars, please visit: https://www.smu.edu/Dedman/Academics/Departments/Economics/Research/SeminarSeries.

Dr. Marcus Butts, Management and Organizations Department chairperson in the Cox School of Business, will discuss how academic literature is replete with studies looking at between-person relationships cross-sectionally or with time-lagged data and how he advocates for a more focused “within-person” approach to understanding the employee perspective. This approach utilizes experience sampling methodology (ESM), whereby employees are surveyed across multiple days in a row to better capture how ebbs and flows in experiences from day-to-day can explain fluctuations in attitudes and behaviors. He will provide a brief glimpse into ESM, how it is typically utilized, and some of the pitfalls of its use and review three of his previous ESM studies. For more information, please contact Lisa Ruano at lruano@smu.edu.

The SMU Department of Mathematics welcomes Professor Guillaume Bal from the University of Chicago for a lecture discussing topological invariants for interface modes. This talk considers such perturbed interface Hamiltonian operators and presents which types of topological invariants we can assign to them, what these invariants are robust against, and which physical observables are associated to these non-trivial topologies. Refreshments will be served beginning 15 minutes before the lecture. For more information, please visit: https://www.smu.edu/Dedman/Academics/Departments/Math/About/Lectures/Seminars.

The Department of Economics invites you to a seminar with Ohyun Kwon, assistant professor of economics at Drexel University. Professor Kwon’s research focuses on international trade and finance. In the seminar, he will discuss the relationship between firms’ foreign currency debt financing choices and their exports. For more information about the economics seminars, please visit: https://www.smu.edu/Dedman/Academics/Departments/Economics/Research/SeminarSeries.

Dr. Michael Chmielewski, associate professor of psychology, examines recent data quality concerns regarding Amazon’s MTurk crowdsourcing service.  Over the past 15 years, MTurk has been used by multiple disciplines to collect high-quality human subjects data, though concerns have risen about its quality and utility for scientific research. Dr. Chmielewski will present results of a recent study (Chmielewski & Kucker, 2019) demonstrating a substantial decrease in data quality using a four-wave naturalistic experimental design: pre-, during, and post-summer 2018. He will also report ways to mitigate these problems and offer suggestions to ensure data quality moving forward.  For more information, please contact Lisa Ruano at lruano@smu.edu.

The University Honors Program welcomes Chris Tomlinson, Houston Chronicle business columnist and author of the New York Times bestselling book, Tomlinson Hill—on which he will be speaking.  As a child, he discovered that white and black families alike shared the Tomlinson name in his ancestral home.  A simple question of how this came to be unlocked numerous historical connections between race, politics, and economics in rural Central Texas. For more information, please contact Brandon Miller at bgmiller@smu.edu. 

The Department of Economics invites you to a seminar with Brantly Callaway, Assistant Professor of Economics at the University of Mississippi. Professor Callaway’s research focuses on microeconometrics and labor economics. In the seminar, he will discuss a new approach to studying the effects of parents’ permanent income on the entire distribution of their child’s permanent income. For more information about the economics seminars, please visit: https://www.smu.edu/Dedman/Academics/Departments/Economics/Research/SeminarSeries.

The SMU Department of Psychology welcomes Dr. Morton Ann Gernsbacher, Vilas Professor and Sir Frederic Bartlett Professor at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, to present her research on the brain’s diversity, when neuroscientists should accentuate the differences, why individuals should accept their brain differences, and how society can accommodate those differences. For more information, please contact Lisa Ruano at lruano@smu.edu.

Come and discover the world of the Dickens family—musicians, actors, artists, writers, and inveterate liars! Lucinda Dickens Hawksley will talk about Charles Dickens’s parents, siblings, children, and descendants. Meet the members of the author's family who inspired his characters, learn about those who traveled the world, and discover the fascinating lives of the less well-known members of the family. For more information, please visit: https://www.smu.edu/Dedman/Academics/Departments/English/LecturesAndEvents.

The Department of Economics invites you to a seminar with James Foster, Oliver T. Carr Professor of International Affairs and Professor of Economics at George Washington University. Professor Foster’s research focuses on international economic development, inequality, poverty, economic theory, and policy. In the seminar, he will discuss a new axiom for the construction of measures of economic poverty that account for the prevalence of poverty, the intensity of poverty, and the severity of inequality among the poor. For more information about the economics seminars, please visit: https://www.smu.edu/Dedman/Academics/Departments/Economics/Research/SeminarSeries.

Dr. Chrystyna Kouros, associate professor and co-director of Undergraduate Studies with the SMU Department of Psychology, along with Ph.D. students, Chelsea Carson and Sharyl Wee, will present on how maternal depressive symptoms are a robust predictor of children’s risk for internalizing symptoms. While some children experience significant negative outcomes, not all children are negatively affected by exposure to their mothers’ symptoms. Their presentation will discuss results from a recent study testing children's self-blame appraisals as a moderator of the association between maternal depressive symptoms and children’s internalizing symptoms. For more information, please contact Lisa Ruano at lruano@smu.edu.

Do you know a high school student in the DFW area interested in studying Human Rights at SMU? Invite them to Human Rights Prospective Student Day! Prospective Student Day is a chance to learn about the SMU Human Rights Program, check out the college admissions process, and connect with current SMU students and faculty. Register today for this behind the scenes visit with our program: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/human-rights-prospective-day-tickets-75504490965.

The Asian Studies Lecture Series is pleased to present Dr. David H. Slater, professor at Sophia University, Tokyo and Dr. Robin O’Day, assistant professor at University of North Georgia. Their talk, “Seeking Asylum in Japan: An oral narrative approach to asylum seekers’ experiences in Tokyo,” addresses the number of refugees applying for asylum in Japan. Between 2010 and 2017, the country has seen a 1600% increase met with strikingly low acceptance, causing asylum seekers to often wait in a state of legal limbo, struggling to rebuild their lives. This talk explores these issues based on extended interviews with asylum seekers in Tokyo as part of a refugee support group at Sophia University. For more information, please contact Tiffany Powell at tapowell@smu.edu. 

In this lecture co-sponsored with SMU Teaching and Learning, Dr. Elizabeth Wheaton will explore how economic factors and individual choices create an environment that can kindle child abuse, an impact that continues for the abused over a lifetime. She will discuss how using the economics lens helps us to discern the decisions being made that lead to child abuse, and, having gained an understanding of the choice structure of child abuse, we can discover ways to change incentives in order to decrease the prevalence, severity, and impact of child abuse. Space is limited and tickets are $15. For more information and to purchase tickets, please visit: https://www.smu.edu/simmons/Academics/DisputeResolution.
