Welcome to the "The Well" SMU's Monthly Health Promotion Newsletter that will keep you in the loop of all things health and wellness on-campus. 
Gratitude goes a long way. Medical studies confirm the link between gratitude and mental health. Psychologists (Seligman, 2005), and (Toepher, 2012),discovered that keeping a gratitude journal, or writing letters of gratitude to other people leads to demonstrated improvements in levels of anxiety, depression, and life satisfaction. Try taking some time out of your day to think about some peoples and things that you are grateful to have in your life.
November's featured resource is AHP Live Care! AHP Live Care is a convenient way to get medical care 24/7 through virtual doctor visits. Safe and secure, its the quality care you need, made easier. Students on the Student Health Insurance Plan have FREE access to this telehealth solution while students not on the plan can access these services for $49/visit. Download the iOS or Android mobile app OR visit ahplivecare.com to access this service today!
American Diabetes Month is observed every November so individuals, health care professionals, organizations, and communities across the country can bring attention to diabetes and its impact on millions of Americans. If you are someone who struggles with Diabetes we encourage you to check out the SMU College Diabetes Network Chapter. This is a  student diabetes group that meets every month on campus to discuss living with diabetes in a college setting. Click here to find out more information on the College Diabetes Network!
There are countless people impacted every day by domestic violence. This month we encourage you to learn more about domestic violence and how you can spot the warning signs of abuse in a relationship. Visit the Office for Violence Prevention and Support Services or check out this GREAT ARTICLE from SMU CampusWell for more information. 
Remember that hydration has a major effect on energy levels and brain function! Shoot for at least 64 ounces of water each day to keep your mind and body performing at their peak!
